In this video we'll learn about operator precedence and associativity and C++ C++ has well-defined operator
precedence and associativity rules.
Here's a table showing the precedence and associativity of some of C++ his operators.
Note that this table is not complete.
It only shows a subset of C++ operators.
You can find complete operator precedence tables online and in most C++ books.
Note that there's two columns.
The first column shows the operator the operators and higher rows have higher precedence than operators
on lower rows.
So as you can see the assignment operators are down at the bottom as you would expect.
And the parenthesis operator is at the top operators on the same row have the same precedence.
So for example you can see that addition and subtraction have the same precedence.
I think precedence is pretty easy to understand.
We learned operator precedence when we learn math in grammar school.
It's the same idea here except we have more operators to consider the second column is the associativity
column.
This is the part that many times confuses students and even C++ programmers.
Notice that associativity is left to right or right to left.
Let's see what it means.
So what's associativity all about.
Suppose you have an expression with two adjacent operators and these operators are different.
Like we see in the first example we can look for operators in the precedence chart and if one of the
operators has higher precedence than the other then that's the operator that supplied first.
This is exactly what we've been doing with our math that we've learned.
But suppose the two operators are the same or they're different but they have the same level of precedence
now precedence doesn't really help us in this case.
We determine how the operators are applied by using their associativity in the second example.
We have the same operator up one use the JSA only if OP one associates left to right.
Then we apply the operator to expression one and expression to first first if OP 1 associates right
to left then we apply the operator to expression to an expression 3 first.
Of course you can always use parentheses to remove any doubt and be sure that your result is what you
expect.
Using parentheses is good practice with complex expressions.
Let's see a couple of simple examples.
In the first example we have three operators.
The assignment operator the addition operator and the multiplication operator depressin its chart tells
us that the multiplication operator has the highest precedence followed by addition followed by assignment.
So I've rewritten the same statement on line 2 showing the order of evaluation by including parentheses.
Note that the evaluation takes place in order of multiplication addition and finally assignment in the
second example.
We again have three operators.
The assignment operator the addition operator and the subtraction operator.
In this case addition and subtraction are of higher precedence than assignment but they both have the
same precedence.
So in this case we need to use their associativity to determine the order of evaluation.
We see that plus and minus associate left to right.
I've rewritten this example using parenthesis to show the order of evaluation many beginning C++ programmers
keep an operator precedence chart handy when they first start out with C++.
After not too long you get to know the operators and this becomes second nature just like using math
precedence did.
The more we used it in school.